hey guys what's up its jason mojo and
today we talk about sponsorship i want
to talk about pros and cons are being
sponsored as well as how you can get
sponsored and how you get the attention
of a company or entity that you would
like to represent so the reason i'm
having this video is because this is
probably one of most commonly asked
questions i get through my email or
through the website and it seems
everybody wants me sponsored okay so i'm
here to tell you the sponsorships are
great but you also need to approach them
carefully because it has to be good fit
for both parties for a sponsorship to be
successful it has to be mutually
beneficial so that means both parties
both you in the company or entity you're
getting sponsored by has to benefit from
this relationship now from the
supplement companies point of view i'm
using the supplement companies an
example but it could be something else
the clothing line for instance or
whatever you have to improve their
bottom line okay your ultimate goal is
to increase their visibility and thereby
their revenue downstream so that they
prosper and benefit from your
participation in active association with
their brand so on your side you know you
have to get something for them as well
so this is most commonly for amateur
athletes supplement I'd say most most
athletes I know gets somewhere between
two and five hundred dollars a month
from a supplement company as a general
rule a few get money not not many that I
know of and you know other things report
as well is this company going to promote
you in their ads are they don't pay your
contests expenses travel things like
that okay so these are just things you
need to think about what are you going
to get out of the cell phone company
relationship so okay assuming both sides
are the same page the next thing you
need to do is figure out how you can
benefit this company now they may have
ideas for your already but if they don't
you need to be creative
okay what are you going to do for the
company so you'll notice you know right
now I have two proteins you're not
sponsored by tropo to have been very
very blessed to be associated with these
guys outstanding individuals Dante's
specifically and I'm always trying to
think of ways to promote should protein
similarly you're gonna have to be the
same thing for whatever company you are
associated with I have a stack of
t-shirts that I wear all the time to the
gym to work to the movie theater it
doesn't matter you need to be actively
plugging your company and generating
visibility for them as much as possible
okay what else will do Cabo plugging
them on youtube facebook twitter you
know the social sites you can I'm just
reflective some notes here that I took
ahead of time you know they can use your
picture and abs that may be what they
want to do you can mention them in a
blog you can put their company website
in a link in your tagline in your
signature line when you post on these
discussion boards okay how about writing
articles for them what else word of
mouth advertising of course we all know
that you may want to work booth there
there supplement booth at contests I did
that for quite a while with ISS another
outstanding company so these are all
things you can do from your side of the
table for the company okay and what
that's basically it and be creative you
know maybe you could give a talk at your
gym you know and then mention the
supplement company or set up a little
booth with some samples at your gym you
know if you can just be creative just
think of little ways to make you know
other people aware of your sponsor so
now you only want to work for a company
that you believe strongly
and do not accept a sponsorship from
someone that you are on the fence about
because it really truly may come back to
haunt you I mean if you're going to get
endorsed by company that says you'll
gain 20 pounds of muscles in six days
using XYZ products do you really really
want to associate your image and your
reputation with that company think about
that carefully because I'm not sure any
amount of money or free supplements is
going to be worth tarnishing your
integrity in the industry because it is
a very small industry and people you
know notice other people and people
remember that kind of thing so I always
make sure that you are associated with a
reputable company that treats you right
that has your back I also know another
thumb plate without naming names who
typically will grab 10 or 12 the best
upcoming amateur bodybuilders get them
under a really cheap contract or some
free supplements hoping that one of them
or a couple of them will turn pro and
then guess which company has them at
that cheaper rate has the right of first
refusal for that contract okay so you
don't want to be pigeonholed like that
either so to make sure that the
supplement company has your best
interest in mind as well ok so don't
don't just jump the gun and say oh this
company's so well known and I don't care
if I don't get anything or if they're
going to use my ad for whatever I mean
be careful make sure you believe in
product is also you're not going to
you're not going to want to promote
products that you don't believe in
yourself or don't use so make sure
that's another important thing that you
can consider um okay how do you get
sponsored the first thing you got to do
is find out who is the company handle
sponsorship some of the big companies
have a sponsor representative that you
can easily find out through if you get
to contact the main number of company
they can tell you if you need to talk to
same thing even with small companies
usually don't have a designated
sponsorship officer or anyone that
oversees that they'll have typically
small companies it's the main owner of
the company that you know the size or
you know maybe they all get together you
know a lot of these companies only have
three four or five people in them or
less than ten at least so it's not a
huge huge issue for one person but you
know I'd say the owner of the smaller
companies is probably best person to
approach you get that information pretty
easily too like on the main main number
emailing customer service at these
companies once you do that you need to
put together an intelligent package that
highlights your experience and what you
plan on doing for the company as long as
it should be as well as a resume okay
now this can be a bodybuilding resume
which is important but also don't
neglect to include a regular resume
nobody wants how do I say this me
politically correct nobody wants a dumb
meathead who can't pronounce more than
two syllable words to represent their
company okay you need if you if you have
a master's degree that's fantastic if
you have bachelor's degree great no show
them that you are intelligent you can
communicate well with others you're
motivated and you know highlight all
these things to make yourself appealing
to the company now if you are going to
spy builder include some photos of
contents history you know your marketing
plan include some of those ideas that we
mentioned earlier in the video of what
you plan on doing for the company if
it's company you really truly believe in
maybe even give them pitch like hey
let's and I'll do this stuff for free
for a couple months tell me what you
think if you're happy and
we can negotiate something after that
you don't have any blues really so that
maybe that's an option you know um it's
pretty much a situation where you have
to sell yourself to the company and it's
not the easiest thing to do because they
are constantly inundated with people
that wanna get sponsored so you really
need save yourself part and show that
what you're going to do for them versus
what they are gonna do for you because
you know it's all about them and when it
comes to that kind of situation you need
to appeal to their interests now one
thing I mentioned is this you know I
said context history does that if you're
not even a contest body below that's
fine you know it doesn't really matter
that much as long as you still have
great ideas for the company and look you
know look like you work out I'd say and
and have some motivation to really
promote this entity that I don't think
you have to be a top competitor or you
know national a bodybuilder either so
you know don't think that just because
you're not a contest bodybuilder you
can't do this you know it's open to
anybody that can benefit the company I'd
say so um I think that's about it if you
guys have any questions leave them on
the video I hope you enjoyed it and I
will see you next time